# Lab 03: Haskell Basics

* Deadline (soft): Friday, 21st of February
* Deadline (hard): Friday, 14th of March
* Score: 5
* ChatGPT: **use only** for explanations. Do not use to generate code.
* Co-pilot: **do not use**
* Coding: code it all yourself, from memory
* Resources:
   * Haskell books
   * GHCi (interactive interpreter)
   * hoogle.haskell.org


# Objectives

* Basic syntax for Haskell
   * basic types: Numbers: Num, Int, Float, String, lists, record type
   * function declarations and definitions
   * function definition pattern matching
   * `main` function and the main module
   * fundamentals of IO (only to write and read from standard input/output)
      * `getContents`, `getLine`
      * `print`, `putStrLn`
      * `read` with type coercion
* Haskell projects
   * Basic structure of Haskell project files as generated by `stack`
   * Basic tools: `stack`, `ghc`, `ghci`


# Instructions

## Task 1: Hello World

Write the simplest program in Haskell that prints "Hello World" to the standard output.
See the default project generated by `stack new helloworld` to get the idea of what is needed.


## Task 2: Hello Name

Modify your program, by asking user for name first with a prompt: "What is your name?"
and then printing text: "Hello " concatenated with the name of the person.
The output of the program should look something like this:

```bash
What is your name?
Mariusz
Hello Mariusz
```


## Task 3: Age

Modify your program, by asking the user for their Name and their age,
and print the following repsonse:
`Hello <name>, in 10 years you will be <calculated_age>.`

The interaction with the program should be something like this:
```bash
Hi, what is your name?
Mariusz
and what is your age?
21
Hello Mariusz, in 10 years you will be 31.
```


### Type safety

* Create two functions, called `addAge`, and `addNumber`. 
* `addNumber` should be able to take in two numbers, and add them together. It should be a generic function that works on any numerical type. What is it that you need to use, and how?
* `addAge` however, should **only** take Age instances as parameters value, and return a new Age instance that is a sum of the two Age instances.  Age should be backed by Int. 
* Version A: If you try to pass a generic number to addAge as a parameter, the compiler should prevent you from doing it.
* Version B: If you call the function with Int it will still work, even though your function will have a signature
```haskell
addAge :: Age -> Age -> Age 
```
* Explain the difference between version A and B. Where should we use one or the other?



## Task 4: `mhead` - first element of a list

Haskell has a built-in functions to operate on lists. As exercises we will re-define them as our own functions, and prefix them with `m`.

`head` is a standard function that returns the first element of a given list.

Your task is to write several variants of your own function that returns the first element of the list, without using the built-in funtion `head`

The more different ways you can implement it, the better. Try to find as many different ways as you can. You can and should use ChatGPT for finding the different ways.
Make sure that you understand how your different implementations work.
Type your code yourself to memorize the patternns better.


### Doctests

We will ALWAYS use doctests to write tests for our own functions. 

Consider adding documentation and doctests for your mhead function, eg.

```haskell
-- | mhead is my own implementation of head function.
--
-- >>> mhead [1,2,3]
-- 1
--
-- >>> mhead ['a','b','c']
-- 'a'
--
-- >>> mhead "Hello"
-- 'H'
```


### Property checks

Because for `mhead` there is a default `head` implementation, we can use it in our tests and actually write an invariant testcase for our function.
Sometimes we call it in the context of Haskell: property check, or QuickCheck.
Ask chatGPT how to do it, and write it with the use of HSpec library.

You can find the documentation and examples here:
https://hspec.github.io/quickcheck.html



## Expectations
Students should be able to, without any additional help:
  * declare and define simple functions in Haskell
  * use basic types such as lists, Int, String and Float
  * make Hello World program
  * read input from standard input
  * print text to standard output
  * be able to use simple do-notation in main
  * write doctest tests
  * use GHCi
  * use `stack` to build, test and run projects

Students should be able, with help from online resources:
  * define quickcheck property tests

## Example instructions with no help

  * Write Hello World in Haskell
  * Read two numbers from standard input and return their sum
  * Read three names from standard input given in a single line and return the second one
  * Read a name from standard input and return the second character of that name

## Example instructions with help

 - help from `co-pilot`, or [Hoogle](hoogle.haskell.org)

  * Write a function that given a name returns the name with the first character capitalized
  * Write a function that given an arbitrary number of numbers in a single line returns their product


